The Joe Rogan experience.
But my point is that, you know, that's how the CCP operates.
They will ruin your industry, your business for the slightest,
the slightest offense. This happened, uh,
two weeks ago with H and M and Nike.
Okay. And it's, and it's because the business is tied to China,
cuz China does do business with the NBA, huge business, huge.
Business, huge.
Business. And you think that this is,
is it because China enjoys having the NBA as an entertainment
entity? Or is.
It Chinese? People love the NBA. That's what it's there. The NBAs huge in China.
It's a, it's also, if you think about it from the NBA's per perspective,
that's their growth, that's their future, right. You know,
that's their biggest growing market for everything from jerseys to games,
to you name it. Uh, and.
With a lot of sports, that's the case too.
And with Hollywood and with the stock markets and with Silicon valley tech
companies and with American universities, all of this I,
of American society see the Chinese economic market as a huge lore as well.
They.
Should. And they do edit films to appease the standards of the Chinese
party. Self.
Censorship is part of, is the cost.
Of doing business. Right. But there's certain things they do like in Dr.
Strange, that Tibetan master was replaced by, uh,
Anglo accent woman. Yeah. This is.
My Tibetan face mask. And now you will never be,
this episode will never be aired inside pan lane. China. Did.
I just, just now, well,
I think it's probably already not gonna be aired because all the you said yeah.
That too, but now this is really, this will really seal it. Okay. Um,
and good. You know what I mean? I will, I,
that's not to say we shouldn't engage of the Chinese people. We need exchanges.
We need to have business there.
And this is another sort of conundrum of the us China relationship that I try to
take a stab at, at my book in my book, which is that, you know,
we have to engage with the Chinese people. We have to have,
we can't decouple our economies. We can't live in two different worlds forever.
It's not gonna work. Right. But we have to find a way to live with China.
And we have to convince the Chinese government to find a way to live with us in
a way that doesn't compromise our security and our prosperity and our public
health. In other words, you know, while we want, we would love,
it's not about regime change. It's not about a cold war.
These are sort of like bumper stickers that people throw out to dissuade people
from having an honest conversation about,
I deal with a Chinese communist party that is becoming increasingly problematic
in ways that affect our lives. And what I'm trying to say is that, you know,
that we have to be clear that, you know,
this is not about China or the Chinese people. This is about the party.
This is the way the party operates. Do you think that, that, uh,
so there's that company that was airing the chin, the NBA games,
they're making a lot off of that. They didn't wanna stop air NBA games.
They had to do that. Cuz the party said, so when Nike, what was it?
What did H and M do they put up a statement questioning whether or not the
cotton they were getting from Chiang was made with forced slave labor.
Just so like, Hey, we're gonna look into it for that one statement.
Their entire business in China was crushed. Okay. Nike,
same thing for years, they resisted these companies again,
they're in a tough position. I get it. Uh, Hey, uh,
the cotton that you're sending us is that was that picked by forced labor
slaves. Like are we allowed to ask? Is that okay?
Just for that Nike's business was, was uh,
destroyed inside China propagated.
Campaign. How, how so was it destroyed?
They, they literally create a, well, they do boycots and again,
it's not like here where like you can, boycot something,
but you have to convince people there. It's like,
if the government says there's a boycot, there's a boycot right.
And then you're, you're, you're your company.
Can't sell anything in China and that's 40% of your business.
You're and it's a pretty big incentive. Right? Mm.
And none of these companies are powerful enough to stand up to the CPR on their
own,
which is why I think they have to work with the us government in some sort of
way, but that's not really going on because politicians just wanna dunk on the
companies or they want to like criticize them for not doing the right thing.
But there's positive incentives to say to the NBA, Hey, listen, why don't we,
you know, get together on this thing.
And we'll use our diplomatic pressure and our diplomatic tools to make sure that
American companies and industries don't get punished by the party for, like,
like a tweet,
but we're not sophisticated enough in our discussion of China or government
response to China that to actually make that.
But I think that's basically where we have to go.
And which brings up one another inescapable question, which is if Nike's using,
uh, slave labor for their shoes, why are sneakers so expensive?
What's the overhead.
It's a very good question. How.
Are sneakers $150? But anyway, that's the either here nor there.
What would they cost if you paid people? Well, exactly. Yeah.
And what's happening? Is it just greed? Yeah. Massive profit margins.
Yeah. So anyway, this is a long way of saying that the parties, uh, uh, if,
to understand China,
you have to understand that the parties in control of everything and that, uh,
dealing with that is just the way things are now.
And that doesn't mean that we have to have a cold war or that we have to
decouple from China.
It just means we have to figure out a new way to first try to convince them not
to do the worst things. And then second to protect ourselves if they insist.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost all for free.
Spotify is so absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.